I think first of all,
they should try and look at C++ as a modern language.
Far too many have learned C++ as if it was just C or as if it was still 1985,
and that pains me a lot because it's much better these days.
You look at it and you see how to use the abstraction mechanisms,
you use the libraries.
They are the standard library which is fundamental data structures,
few algorithms, timing, regular expressions, that kind of stuff.
Then there are specific libraries for specific areas, the database interfaces,
you have specific graphic libraries,
animation libraries, and such.
So I think when you start programming,
you stick to the fundamentals for awhile because,
well, the fundamentals are the fundamentals.
You have to know your algorithms,
you have to know your data structures,
you have to know a little bit of machine architecture if you want to write at that level.
Then, you're going to actually do something.
If you're writing video game,
you have to know what game's engine and the libraries that go in there.
So you go through the fundamentals and then something specific to your interest.